	INSTRUCTIONS FOR USING LSCURVES AND THE BREAKPOINTS FILES
	FOR LAKE SHORE CALIBRATED TEMPERATURE SENSORS TO PROGRAM
		LAKE SHORE TEMPERATURE CONTROLLERS.

Version 3.0, Revision A of LSCURVES (effective date 6/30/99) added
functional support for the Model 321 temperature controller, also
fixed a problem with converting the contents of the .330 data files
into the proper format for dumping the curve to the instrument, and
corrected a problem with programming a serial instrument at 300 baud.

The LSCURVES program is a DOS replacement for all versions of the DUMP
program previously supplied by Lake Shore Cryotronics for transferring
data for our calibrated temperature sensors into Lake Shore temperature
monitors and controllers.  LSCURVES has additional functionality not
found in any version of DUMP:

1. LSCURVES is capable of loading data into any of the following Lake
Shore temperature controllers:  81C, 82C, 91C, 93C, 218, 234, 321, 330,
and 340.

2. LSCURVES can load data using a PC RS-232 serial interface (must be
COM1 or COM2) or a National Instruments PCII or PCIIA GPIB interface.
The GPIB board in the computer must be configured as GPIB0; the
instrument is accessed by specifying the IEEE address (factory default
is 12) instead of the configured device name as with the old DUMP
program.  In order to load curves over the GPIB interface using the
LSCURVES program, the DOS GPIB driver MUST be installed on the user's
computer.

  *********************************************************************
  ** PLEASE REFER TO THE "REMOTE OPERATION" SECTION OF YOUR          **
  ** INSTRUMENT'S USER'S MANUAL FOR INSTRUCTIONS ON CONFIGURING      **
  ** YOUR COMPUTER'S GPIB OR RS-232 INTERFACE FOR COMMUNICATION WITH **
  ** YOUR LAKE SHORE INSTRUMENT.                                     **
  *********************************************************************

3. LSCURVES confirms the instrument model with the "*IDN?" query for
newer Lake Shore instruments, checks older models by using a query for
configuration data.

4. LSCURVES reads the instrument's stored curve data to determine the
next available curve location for data storage, although you are
permitted to overwrite existing user-stored or factory-stored curves
(but not the permanently installed standard curves) if you choose.

Four data files are provided with each calibrated sensor from Lake
Shore along with the program LSCURVES.EXE and the file LSCURVES.TXT
containing these instructions.  The data files will usually consist of
the sensor's serial number with four different file extensions: .91C,
.330, .34A, and .340.  The LSCURVES program does not use the file name
or extension to identify the data format but instead checks the
contents of the file to make sure the data is compatible with the
instrument.

The .91C file is the older "data string" file format consisting of a
single long character record which is the concatenation of the curve
header information and the breakpoints list.  This file is the same
format as those used by the different versions of the DUMP program.
These files may be loaded into any of the instruments listed above
except for the Model 340 temperature controller, except that the Model
321 and 330 temperature controllers will only accept curves for
"linear" devices (diodes, platinum or rhodium-iron resistors,
thermocouples are o.k.; germanium, carbon glass, Cernox, and ruthenium
oxide are NOT compatible with the 321 or the 330).  This file is
included for backward-compatibility with existing customer programs
and Lake Shore test programs which require the old format.  Old files
in the "data string" format already in the possession of customers may
be used with LSCURVES provided that they are re-named to have a .91C
file extension.

The .330 file is a more "nicely" formatted breakpoints table which
contains the same information as in the .91C file, but is more easily
read and understood using a text editor.  LSCURVES can also read and
load data from the .330 files into Lake Shore temperature controllers.

The .34A and .340 files are usable only with Model 340 temperature
controllers.  The .34A file format is an older one included for
compatibility with existing customer programs and Lake Shore test
programs which require this file format.  The .340 files are "user-
readable" text files which contain all of the same information as the
.34A files; both formats can be read and loaded into Model 340
temperature controllers by LSCURVES.  The Model 218 Temperature
Monitor uses the same file format as the Model 340 Temperature
Controller.

When the LSCURVES program is started, copyright information and a brief
description of the program are displayed.  Below that the user is
prompted to press a key:  F1 to select GPIB instrument communication,
F2 to indicate RS-232 communication, or Esc to quit.

If GPIB communication is selected, the user is prompted for the
instrument's address and the program attempts to initialize the GPIB0
interface and the device at the selected address.  If RS-232, the user
is prompted for the COM port (1 or 2).

Next the user is asked to specify the intrument model.  If RS-232
communication has been specified, the user then must specify the
baud rate for communication from a list of the valid values for the
designated instrument.  LSCURVES then tries to initialize the port.
If the GPIB board is not properly configured or the wrong COM port
or baud rate has been entered, the program may hang at this point;
if this happens, you must re-set the equipment and re-check the
configuration parameters.

After successful port initialization the user is prompted for the
instrument model.  LSCURVES tries to confirm the identification; newer
Lake Shore instruments respond to the "*IDN?" query with positive
identification of the instrument model; the older instruments models
(81C, 82C, 91C, 93C) cannot be distinguished from each other at this
point but are asked for interface configuration information (the "W2"
query) to confirm that they behave as one of these controllers should.

After the temperature controller is initialized the user is given the
opportunity to specify print options.  If the Enter key is pressed
without changing the print options, LSCURVES will try to print the
CalCurve configuration sheets to a generic ASCII printer attached to
LPT1.  The user may specify LPT2 or give the path for a newtowk
printer.  In addition, if the printer supports the Hewlett-Packard
Printer Coltrol Language (Version 5 or later), a "nicer" print
format is available for the configuration sheets.

After selecting print options, the user is prompted for a file name
containing curve information to be transferred.  Any valid directory
path may be included with the file name.  The file name is not
required to end with the file name extensions mentioned above since
LSCURVES reads the data file to ensure that all required information
is present in the designated curve format.

Next, LSCURVES reads the intrument's stored curve information to
determine the next available curve location.  The user is prompted
for a curve location and the program re-checks to find out if that
location is currently occupied by another curve.  The user is
permitted to overwrite an existing curve if it is not one of the
permanently installed standard curves, but a warning and an
additional prompt are displayed to confirm that you want to over-
write.

The data as sent to the instrument is displayed on the computer screen,
then the program attempts to read back and display the curve data from
the instrument.  Note that RS-232 curve programming takes longer than
GPIB communication because the interface is slower and because the
data must be broken down into smaller pieces to create the curve in the
instrument.  A Model 340 temperature controller takes several seconds
to permanently update the "curve flash" before the curve may be read
back.

After the curve is read back from the instrument and displayed,
LSCURVES asks whether the user wishes to print the configuration
information for the CalCurve just installed, using the previously
entered print options.  At this point you may press Y to get a
printout or N if no printout is desired.

Next, LSCURVES asks whether the user wants to transfer another curve
file.  Pressing Y will cause LSCURVES to prompt the user for another
file name.  Pressing N will end the program.

If you have questions or problems regarding using LSCURVES, please
contact Lake Shore Cryotronics, Inc. to request the assistance of a
service engineer:

	Lake Shore Cryotronics, Inc.
	575 McCorkle Blvd.
	Westerfille, OH 43082
	Phone:  (614) 891-2244
	E-Mail: info@lakeshore.com